#summary A brief description to the training files.
#labels Featured

= Introduction =

The training data contains three types of files:
   * Model definition file: number of mark points, etc
   * PTS file: a PTS file lists the coordinates of landmark points in an image
   * List file: A list of paths of PTS files


= Model Definition =
Below is an example. The order of this file should never be changed. Lines starting with a # are treated as comments.
{{{
#Number of landmark points
60
# number of paths
10
# Face Contour:
# Formats: to-point-# path-closed
# 
# A path from the 1st point to the 15th point, this path is not a cycle:
15 0
# Another path from 16th point to the 21st one, this path is a closed cycle.
21 1
27 1
31 1
32 0
36 1
37 0
46 1
48 0
60 1

# Initial positions
# After face detection, we may want to move the box of
# face to get better results. Eg. If the model contains 
# only points below the eye, we want to put the initial 
# estimation in the lower part of a face.
#r.y -= r.height*?
0.1
#r.x -= r.width*?
0.1
#r.width *= ?
1.2
#r.height *= ?
1.45

# More explanations on the following will be given later
#step?*100/sqrt(area)
1.0

# init scale ratio when searching
0.65
# init X offset when searching
0
# init Y offset when searching
0.25
}}}

= PTS file =
A PTS file lists the coordinates of landmark points in an image. The path of the image is indicated by the path of the PTS file. eg: File 'feret_color/00002_940928_fa.ppm.pts75' is describing the landmark points in 'feret_color/00002_940928_fa.ppm'.

The first line of a PTS file has an integer N, indicating how many markpoints there are. Each of the following N lines contains two integers X_i and Y_i, describing the coordinates of the points.

E.g. a description of four points:
{{{
4
381 305
354 267
314 241
268 230
}}}

= List File =
A list of PTS files. Every line represents a path to a PTS file. Absolute path is preferred. eg:
{{{
/mnt/data/asmlib-opencv/data/feret_color/00002_931230_fa.ppm.pts75
/mnt/data/asmlib-opencv/data/feret_color/00002_940128_fa.ppm.pts75
/mnt/data/asmlib-opencv/data/feret_color/00002_940422_fa.ppm.pts75
}}}